negotiations towards a ceasefire in Gaza
are expected to resume in Egypt later on
Sunday Israel has confirmed its security
and intelligence Chiefs are part of the
discussions but Hamas says it isn't
sending a delegation to Cairo
demonstrators are gathering in the
coming hours in front of the Israeli
parliament in West Jerusalem they're
launching a three-day protest calling
for prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu to
resign they follow similar protests in
Tel Aviv on Saturday the families of
captives being held in Gaza are among
the thousands who gathered there
accusing him of abandoning their loved
ones let's bring in our senior political
analyst Maran bishara we'll start with
the with the ceasefire negotiations that
are to resume in Cairo on Sunday why do
you think Hamas isn't sending a
delegation Marwan of course it remains
to be seen exactly we'll wait to hear
from them but I think uh they have found
so far the negotiations to be
fruitless because whenever they come
back with suggestions or some form of
compromises the Israelis have been
rejected in them as um absurd or
unrealistic or some other words uh just
to
show um you know sort of a despise for
whatever Hamas is coming up with in the
end of the day I think the main
differences have been for quite some
time now since I would say since
Christmas and now we're in
Easter is that Hamas once this wherever
the negotiations are and wherever the
temporary is that it leads to a
permanent ceasefire just like the United
Nations security Council has suggested
or demanded two they want the people in
Gaza who are displaced today to go back
to their homes in the north which again
you know it's the most humanitarian and
and normal thing to do and third they
want the Israelis to stop pulling out
right eventually right now they the
Hamas has given in on the timeline on on
on the calendar when exactly these
things will happen but eventually
they're going to have to happen I mean
that the Israelis needs to give some
sort of guarantees or assurances
otherwise what is being proposed is that
they will be opposing in ceasefire for
about few days or few weeks to be
resumed with major attack on Rafa and
the rest of Southern Gaza and that's not
acceptable yeah there was a time you
know you were saying that Hamas knows
that they have been fruitless recently
the negotiations there was a time last
year when ceasefire negotiations were
successful what's changed since then
well d has passed and time continues to
pass and apparently more captives are
dying and I think uh the mere
appearances that there are some serious
negotiations going on buys Israel time
right and and provides this image that
Israel is serious about a ceasefire when
fact it's not serious about ceasefire
the war cabinet uh the security cabinet
continuously talks about the need to
defeat Hamas continue with the War uh
hit Gaza and so on so forth while the
negotiations going on and being reported
on as if they are the real story they
are not they are the Side Story they are
the deflection from the rear from the
reality on the ground you and I have
been talking for six months I have been
skeptical now for five months of them
about the idea of ceasefire
because it's clear that Israel might
want to pose for a few days maybe a
couple of weeks but not more than that
yeah they've been saying so but the
United States and the mediators are
interested really interested in
apparently in getting some kind of a
pause leading to another pause leading
eventually to a permanent ceasefire but
Israel is but how do you overcome the
differences when one party wants the
destruction of the other the complete
destruction of the other absolutely and
that's what Hamas has concluded
apparently but you might still see them
go back to the negotiations because
there's a lot of pressure on them I mean
there aren't that many places now for
for them to go and to start talking
about uh making life a bit easier a bit
less intolerable for the people in Gaza
they need to do that because they have
responsibility you know with the people
in Gaza now the Americans have been
serious about trying to wind down the
war not end it wind it down change the
tactics and reach some kind of a
temporary settlement so that captives
are released yeah and so that the
humanitarian assistance reaches some
people so that they are playing some
sort of a productive role so the
Americans are trying to bridge the idea
of a temporary pose or temporary
ceasefire or truce into a more permanent
one and how they are doing it this is
the most important of all of we're
watching that's why what happens in
Washington is just as important of what
happens in K because they want to find
some kind of formulation where Arabs get
involved where the Palestinian Authority
gets involved where Hamas is sidelined
completely so that they start talking
about the day after yeah but at what
point do you think that the Americans
I'm not going to ask at what point are
they going to put any real pressure but
how does Israel's plans for Rafa how do
they factor in into the kind of pressure
the Americans put on Israel at the
moment I think the negotiations offer ra
between the Americans and the Israelis
and if you pay attention all the real
negotiations in this region happened
between Israelis and Americans not
Americans and Arabs or Israelis and
Arabs
and but there doesn't seem to be much of
a negotiation between the Americans and
the Israelis over how to do ra yes there
is over how over how to bomb RAF there
is like you bomb it this way or that way
you kill that many people or that many
people you kill that many people over
that much time so this is the
negotiations right how do you make
genocide
Humane how do you make war crimes a bit
less criminal in the eyes of the world
how do you execute a war war with
killing a bit few civilians making
Israel a bit more acceptable to its
future Partners whether it's Saudi
Arabia and others so the Americans are
trying to weigh in and say the way you
meaning the Israelis are conducting this
war it is shortsighted you might win
militarily against rafah but you will
lose strategically in Palestine and in
the Middle East they will be far more
recruits available for Hamas Hamas will
not be defeated because you invaded Rafa
or killed tens of thousands or more
people you need to find another way of
doing it and we meaning the Americans
are proposing bringing the Arabs in
bringing the Palestinian Authority in
bringing itself in to weigh in heavily
on this but the Israelis are not
listening thus far yeah I mean that's a
completely separate conversation that
the rest of the world is trying to have
with Israel the conversation between the
Americans and the Israelis mwan thank
you as always for your analysis that is
our senior political analyst Maran
bashara